you're gonna RGB Matt I'm gonna RGB Matt
RGB
now we can go to dramatic looking for a
new PC or PC hardware then today's
sponsor Micro Center is guaranteed to
have what you need
micro centers huge selection of hardware
and devices along with their
industry-leading prices mean you get
more for your money while passionate
knowledgeable sales staff are available
to assist you with your next build with
build your own micro center carries the
latest in PC tech from all major brands
not comfortable building it yourself
then certified in-store technicians can
build it for you in as little as the
same day to see all that micro Center
has to offer and to find the store
closest to you click the sponsor link in
the description below
alright so we're heading to Dreamhack
2020 it's a first time it's come to the
west coast and I'm saying that again
without and you guys bitching and
whining about how are you doing with
that LTX it was not a dreamhack event
dream hacks own website says coming to
the West Coast for the first time their
own website says it you can't argue with
them it's an anti on Convention Center
we've got everything loaded up the Star
Wars rig the ship build that we did for
Phil we got monitors we got deodorant
which is funny cuz Dreamhack is like
please bring deodorant which is
important trust me if you've ever been
to a LAN party in our genre trust me I
don't just like with your friends or
anything like know someone out there
right now watching this stinks I'm sorry
but it's true
look I was pretty ignorant I thought it
was just a LAN party
no BYOC is just a small portion which
stands for bring your own computer by
the way if you weren't aware it's just a
small portion of the whole show it's
like a big packs esque thing they have
tournaments they have cosplay they have
vendors they have shows they actually
invited me to do some panels I
respectfully declined because I want
from my first Dreamhack event to
experience the BYOC and not be like I
have to be here at this time and do this
I didn't want to do any of that so we're
experiencing this 100% from the attendee
perspective so it should be fun but
there's like a thousand seats or
something like that for the BYOC which
is extremely small versus sweden which
has like 5000 seats
there's gonna be the biggest land I've
ever attended this is gonna be the first
blend like public land I guess that I've
everything that I literally got on the
freeway ends upbeat gasps super energy
super efficient carrying our stuff two
monitors
to complete two systems - Oh a backpack
yeah sick
do you mind it's like five miles or hey
like J like Starbucks that way oh my god
is that like Paris Hilton okay so
obviously we're here at Dreamhack now we
got our little our setups here we're
gonna be live-streaming Phil and I and I
was like oh I didn't overclock this
panel because it's overclockable to 165
and when I did it set it to 1024 by 768
you every clunkier nostalgia oh god it's
like the Lord gross when you turn the
monitor this way because then you have
to look at yourself so security just
thought I was Jays kid probably cuz a
lot different look at that yeah maybe
you're my adopted kid from the
Philippines yeah like you have to like
spend five cents like every month walked
outside after I my classes all like
later we got the most important thing
you need a land party that's food it's
all nicely there like me me hi I'm
holding the camera yes kinda it's a
little dark in here now as you can see
so one of the things that they did here
at dreamhack I look stupid one of the
things they did so the Ryan Reynolds
movie fun guy the one where he's an NPC
that goes rogue
our free guy I thought fun guy fun guy
all right so we're kind of sort of set
up I know Phil's gonna be a live
streaming too by the time you guys see
this Oh we'll be over so too might like
six funk if you were already following
us on Twitter then you would know that
but if you weren't then you didn't see
any of the shenanigans that are gonna be
happening at Dreamhack that haven't
happened yet
but I've already happened by the time
you guys have seen this so by the end of
this video you'll see the shenanigans
that have already happened but I don't
know what's gonna happen yet cuz that is
happening again you fall down oh we lost
our voice because we were getting filmed
Oh as though you were explaining earlier
yeah but I but this is a new take
because so the movie free guy was Ryan
Reynolds that's coming out this summer
the one where he basically plays an npc
in a game think Grand Theft Auto 5 is
like the random ABC that walks around
that's kind of like his role and then he
sort of goes rogue their film they
filmed a few scenes for that movie here
using the BYOC all these fine folks the
thousand or so computers that are here
huge land that for some of the scenes
regarding that movie so that overhead
cable right there flying over us you
guys can see it there was actually a red
camera mounted on that that was going
back and forth and they literally flies
right over top of our head so you never
know we might end up in there and it's a
scarily Genki melt yeah and it makes it
makes a crazy sound there's my computer
a shotgun dude shut up so yeah anyway
it's been a long time since I've
livestream which is funny so I'm trying
to get will BSL set up I spent the first
like whole part of this day just eating
food and setting up stream
hey hubs it got any more of those
monsters now I would make you my best
friend today I'm gonna have caffeine the
whole weekend shut up it's a LAN party
yeah
Oh what is it wait you should make it
read alright so this is the end of day
one
now Dreamhack we didn't film a whole lot
other than getting here in semi setting
up we're live-streaming right now so if
you guys are watching the livestream
then you'll see this whenever this goes
up whenever that is and that's the
audience that's you what Phil is saying
is I well I already told him this I
sleepwalk and I sleep talk a lot he's
demonstrating apparently how I was
sleeping last night it's the next day my
back is killing me in the metal chairs
they're padded but the problem is I
can't just position so we think we're
gonna run back to the studio and pick up
some chairs because that's the nice
thing about having a big land like this
local to us
I also need coffee I'm also congested he
sounds like a misfiring engine with a
with a tile blow-off oh yeah pretty much
how does this work does it working it is
working
clearly a lot more people here today
this is actually the super smash
brothers like play Germany area
all the thousand pcs on the other side
right now we're gonna go stuff our face
after actually playing portal 2 and
working my brain a little bit I'm tired
yeah I feel like if portals were real
this is what you would do you got your
chicken pesto no no it's a salad
sandwich that's the chicken it's got a
salad on it that would that's those did
tell me no okay so I know it looks like
it's not the next day because it looks
like I haven't changed my clothes I did
I promise I showered he smells so bad
he smells terrible too you guys have
actually ever seen Hobbs on my channel
so this is Hobbs Lata he's one of my
moderators when we did Tech Talk he was
probably the most consistent moderator
we had you all know the truth like there
was there were times he would text me
hey I'm sorry man I'm caught up at work
I'm gonna be late modding I'm really
sorry it's like how dare you tell your
boss you have real [__] to do yourself
late for a free gig that I'm back I
wasn't free he paid right now with
exposure I just want to give the thanks
to him cuz he's the one who got us in
here because I was an idiot and totally
forgot to buy tickets to this thing
prior to it being like the good stuff
sold out there were still regular
b-y-o-see seats but we're not regular
people so no and by that I mean we're
all big guys we need big seats and stuff
I totally owned up to it I said I don't
like special treatment except for when
Ms shows give me all the specials yeah
so we're still gonna be doing the I
guess it's the next day we're still
gonna be taking a look at the knock and
the network set up with the network
network admins here and you guys may
recognize
Dave's cane so he's one of the admins
here for the network setup because you
guys know this he has an infrastructure
expert so he haven't seen him at this
morning when we see him we'll kind of
get a walkthrough of what goes into
having a three gigabit 1,000 seat BYOC
every might bring your own computer set
up plus stage setup because it's not
just the computers that are sitting here
in this section which a lot of people
are not here right now and there's
so um you can see right there right
there there's lots of people here lots
of computers and imagine if the internet
here was terrible that would be bad
right that would would not be good for a
LAN party but there's also the stages
the main stages when they're doing the
pro gaming in the tournament's just the
whole expo hall upstairs it has internet
provided to the boots and the main stage
up there in the because of the action
was some of the stuff that's actually
being eSports televised and whatnot so
obviously the integrity of the system
there is very important so I think
that's gonna be a fun portion of this
video if you guys are wondering why you
haven't seen us like vlogging any of the
gaming that's because I live streamed
for seven hours if you go so yeah that's
why you guys should pay attention to
Twitter and stuff because you would have
known and Phil is paint playing the most
graphically intensive game I've ever
seen circa 95 so regarding the Star Wars
build which is right there obviously you
guys can't really see it the way it's
made right now cool temperatures we did
the sorry
she's mimicking all the 49 players that
are here this weekend who are some of
the loudest most obnoxious people and
ever met but anyway the Star Wars build
with the r-tx Titan in there remember I
said I wasn't sure how the cooling was
going to be but with the fan that we
installed that knocked to a fan and the
upgraded fan on top the max temperature
I saw was 48 C in the most intensive
game and then average it was sitting
like what is what I show you yesterday
feels like 38 when we turn off the
computer that was on not all day gaming
non-stop I was like 38 C under load
anyway we'll see you guys back with the
network toward a minute okay so as I
promised you guys I'm back with Cain you
guys probably know who he is
infrastructure infrastructure expert
extraordinaire I'm gonna let him talk
the second I came through the veil
if you
yeah it's a lot going on here so this is
the core of our network here for the
BYOC everything in the expo hall
upstairs are broadcasting areas and even
our free play bits over in the corner
which we'll go and check out so this
fancy cable bits here is the fiber-optic
lines that are running out to all the
premium rows and the distribution
switches that are out in the BYOC we've
also got a really awesome tactical fiber
cable that runs over to the corner to
the free play area feeding 160 gig
backbone between them and all of this
comes together in a span of about three
maybe four days we start on Monday with
trucks getting unloaded stuff getting
set up we have a core set up that is up
in the data center of the venue and then
we've got all this fiber we ended up
running I want to say was Wednesday we
ran all the fiber on Wednesday just one
day like that our do they get assembled
here both depends on which switch it is
so yeah a lot of times these I'll travel
in these cases and they're trucked
across the country they go from event to
event meters of cable of you think are
running for just this section like the
the BYOC in the lower level probably
about five kilometers for the whole
event and another two on top of that so
probably us five to seven maybe eight
eighty thousand meters of cable that we
have the fiber optic not having the cat5
cat6 I was complaining that had to run
about what 10 meters at home so I'm
gonna introduce will this is our
defender no he's the head of our network
operations team here at Dreamhack I'm
talk a little bit about our BYOC in our
set up what we have here is our BYOC set
up every single row we have two switches
to everybody so no one is ever 25 feet
away from a switch that we could bring a
25 foot cable you can always plug in all
of the premium roads which are in orange
we end up running a fiber to every one
of those individually all of our
standard tables we end up dropping a
switch with a fiber run and then we have
Ethernet runs to every single one of
those tables to each of the switches in
terms of planning then you guys request
a blueprint from the venue and then this
is all plan where you know that
see how many seats at the tables then
you go to work planning the switch
layout yes so the fun part about this is
when I got the original plan it changed
five times from that before I actually
got the original plan so like before I
got the finalized plan this the layout
of this definitely changed five times
are not which is where we're standing
right now Network Operations Center okay
and we are essentially in charge of like
all the network for Upstairs Downstairs
all of it not just the BYOC has it gone
smoothly this event this event didn't go
as smoothly as we would have liked it to
a lot of the issues we ran into were
mainly attendees we have what almost
double what we're used to at this event
I would say well you said there was a
problem too with some people unplugging
your actual so we have a lot of excited
I would say attendees who decide they
need to be in the last part of a switch
but the last part of the switch for our
standard rows are the uplink so they
decide I'm gonna plug myself in here but
someone's there
they unplug it plug themselves in and
then everybody freaks out because their
games just dropped and everything died
it so truth to being last on a switch
there is no truth so the switches that
we actually end up going through with
this event so we ended up going with
juniper previous events we did Cisco's
junipers I believe there's like no
throughput issue like each one has an
ASIC for each board all the junipers
switches that we have on the floor
everything from the stuff in the BYOC
even the stuff we have here in the core
they can do a line speed to every single
port at the same time as we've said
every single ports got an ASIC which is
the thing that controls all the bits and
bytes being transmitted across the line
and they the backplane is strong enough
and capable enough that you can saturate
every single port which is really
difficult to do when you think about
having an uplink and communication
between ports you can saturate every
single port and that's about the time
you're gonna start seeing some kind of
latency and delay so it doesn't really
matter where you are in the switch at
all what one of the funny things we
found with the junipers actually we were
worried that the blinking the three the
three blinks every second
and we didn't know this was like hey we
thought something was wrong there was a
storm or something yeah we ended up
looking up and digging through
documentation to found out this just
means three blinks every second is
gigabit up late yeah exactly and that's
what we were concerned about too when we
first came in to is 100 and then one
blink every second is 10 mega coupling
cables represents a table or something
along we live a secret so each one of
these orange cables represents a switch
on one of the standard tables wherever
we drop a switch we never need to worry
about the orange cables to them we just
run that table directly to this switch
dual fibre attend get a 10 gig to this
switch there's another really neat way
that they're kind of getting around the
whole like do you want to download
something here instead suddenly
everyone's downloading stuff you guys
have a really cool system set up for
caching so let's go ahead and kind of
take a look at that from the view iOS C
core networks infrastructure on that
side we have a four pair fiber optic
connection tactical fiber that comes up
over the ceiling and down and drops into
the front of our Arista switch here and
giving us a 160 160 gig backbone between
here and the BYOC core from there we
have a hundred and 60 gigs 4q sfp+
connections dropping into our caching
system which is running a heavily
modified version of a steam cache slam
cache that's got everything from Steam
we can do epic games we can do Windows
updates Apple PlayStation Xbox escape
from tarkov was a game that was it's a
got a new it set its own launcher and we
spent most of Friday morning tearing
apart that we basically tore apart what
it was doing in Wireshark the crap out
of how it was connecting to the internet
and what it was connecting to and I
built a the ability to cache even that
game so that was as a Friday morning
that was able also able to be cached by
our system Thursday when we were pre
loading our free play area which is 160
machines that need to download about 500
gigs of games each we pushed 53.9 Giga
second out of this cache for about an
hour and then it settled down to about
35 to 45 Gigabit a second for the next
four hours while we continue to load
everything off the Steam and this is
kind of the
of bandwidth conservation for the event
and the event and it's it's less about
how much bandwidth you have in the event
to use it's more about how much do you
have available for people to use of if
half of the BYOC wanted to download say
a fun game like fortnight which has got
some obnoxiously huge updates every time
they get an update instead of
downloading all that from the internet
we download it once here and then we
spread it out to everybody can download
it from the cache at relatively high
speeds so all of Friday we were pushing
about twenty to twenty five gigabit a
second out of the cache while we were
only downloading from the Internet up to
about eight gig so we have two three gig
connections to the Internet and a like a
failover load balance and it's versatile
up to ten gig each and we've been able
to push that up to about six so they've
been pretty consistent about giving us
that six gigs download okay but here's
the thing though at the Anaheim
Convention Center obviously this is a
huge venue and we're only using a
portion of it for Dreamhack so cane once
you show them what it takes to get the
internet down there so this is the D
mark that we are connected into from the
ISP from the facility in the building
we've got these two fiber links which is
our 10 gig fibers that have got a what
we call a free gig commit which means
that they are throttling us to three
gigs with a burst of all up to ten gigs
so they can we can push it really hard
for a few seconds and then it'll just
settle back down about three gates but
that comes into this is a juniper MX 204
we're gonna pair them and they're in a
failover pair so if one of them
physically catches fire the other one
will continue operating and that's it's
a redundancy set up these switches down
here re x42 of 4600 s there's a lot of
10-gig ports with a bunch of 40 gig up
links out here so we're communicating
between our outer fire the outer router
and the inner switch with multiple 40
gig connections and then all of this is
what's running to the expo hall out on
to the floor where you've got things
like warcraft 3 you've got
hallo manged our main stage all the big
tournament areas all that is being fed
from here because there's a lot of
internet that has to go around everybody
has to have connection into the network
oh this is a lot because you're like so
nonchalantly grabbing the entire
internet critical please this is yeah 20
parties these two up here are probably
more important these are the ones that
actually connect us to the outside where
this is everything connecting all of the
floor fiber optics is very fragile so
you don't want to be like too crazy with
this you don't want to step on it you
don't want to trip over it you don't
want to snag it you pull on it don't run
over or the forklift don't snag it with
a cart like don't do that these are the
ones that run on a much more this is a
call at tactical fibre cable so it's got
the fiber lines that we have they're
running inside this really awesome
rubber sheathing it's designed for a
little more rugged use this one you
probably could run over with a forklift
but don't you don't run over it with a
forklift
especially not with the forks it's bad
you make us whole cry and then we get
angry do you ever nano happens with
angry nerds this is the connection this
runs from here through the
infrastructure of the building and then
down into the BYOC core where it is then
aggregated out for the entire BYOC and
then connected over to the cache system
because we recognize the value of the
cache system for this event we tied that
cache system off the side like it is
what it is being fed into even these
guys up here on the expo floor
okay so steam is obviously cache what
about and you mentioned epic what about
origins suppertime so we've got steam
epic Windows Apple PlayStation Xbox I
guess an escape from tarkov was on their
origin is technically being cached but
not really so the the key to all of this
is that in order for us to cash it it
has to be an HTTP unencrypted download
origin decided that they were going to
do HTTPS only so we used to be able to
cache it and then one day it was just
not capable of being cached and now
their client will ask you as the user
like hey do you want to download this
over HTTP or HTTPS and when you're in an
event like this you want to hit HTTP
because if you hit HTTPS
you want cash it you'll be going
straight from the internet and if
everybody does that we're all gonna have
a bad time steam rolled out an update to
their client that it looks for land cash
steam content calm and from that if it
resolves to a private IP address it goes
oh you're at a land party let's change
how we behave so it goes from five
connections five active connections to
30 it directs all of its HTTP requests
to that IP that it resolved to otherwise
it does HTTP requests to the to the out
after the cloud to the rest of the
regular CD ends and this it's not just
us doing this there's a UK lands and
there's an open-source land a bunch of
other people mostly in mostly in Europe
and England specifically England's got a
really terrible infrastructure for their
internet connections at their venues and
that's when I've been talking to all the
guys who run these land parties they end
up with a pair of DSL connections that
they're caching everything off of and
it's like that's the only way they can
have an event because they're stuck with
less than 20 Meg's of Internet
connectivity and on the flip side I've
been to events where I was naive and way
oh they've got fast internet they're
just a land party I'll just download my
games there where the entire first day
was burned up downloading at terrible
speeds because there was no cache or
anything like that so obviously that's a
pretty awesome and I wasn't even
expecting that we downloaded a couple
games on Steam that we were like oh we
should play it while we're here it was
just like what the heck has happened we
had a conversation with the upstairs in
the expo hall that was a fortnight
tournament and they had a test client
that they were utilizing for the the
tournament version of the game the
gentleman from from epic was like yeah
this should start downloading and
they'll all start doing a peer-to-peer
connection and why is it's done already
that one's done too well that was done
that actually was a lot faster than I
thought it was so it was like a super
virus for a game I can't I appreciate
you showing us this man this is awesome
I've got to talk to you in a while so
it's kind of good to catch up with you
and also see how much like everything
you're doing is growing even in just the
last few years
yeah so yeah I think it would be cool
like if we came up like a little baby
version for what we do in the studio
because when we build new systems and we
need to download like our suite of like
15 titles that we test right even if we
have it sitting on our server we don't
have a huge backbone or anything like
this to try and feed it off from when we
try and run it from the server so that
didn't work so obviously you guys know
what you're doing so you could help us
set up a small-scale you know rollout
version of that but I'm gonna put all of
the information for Cannes it's not
knock you right knock tachyons a company
that I'm out running is called knock
tech but what I'm gonna do is I'll put a
link to like your socials and stuff down
below people can get a hold of you if
they want house about anything
Dreamhack clearly is a huge event this
is not as big as some of the other
Dreamhack events but clearly this is a
huge task and you guys had to figure it
out for this venue for the first time so
this is the first this is the second
time we've actually rolled out a land
cache like this the first one was the
baby version of this this is like
version 4 will have a slightly improved
version for Dallas which is coming up in
May and then we're gonna have another
bigger fancier oh my god that's amazing
version for Atlanta near the end of the
year that's awesome but also if the
audio kind of sucked guys we apologize
it is a loud venue we are now in a
server area it's the data center sound
so this this is like but this is a good
sound to people who know what they're
hearing so anyway that's gonna wrap up
our dreamhack video I definitely gonna
attend another game pack and I could not
go to the one that's literally 45
minutes from my house they call myself a
gaming enthusiast if I didn't come so I
kind of looking forward now to getting
the traveling experience and going to
check it out Dreamhack in Sweden someday
absolutely it's so open
alright guys thanks for watching I guess
I check out the description below put
the Dreamhack information the website as
well as knock tech and anything else we
think is interesting so thanks for
watching guys and we'll see you there